{\rtf1\ansi\deff3\adeflang1025
{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fprq2\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\froman\fprq2\fcharset2 Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}{\f3\froman\fprq2\fcharset128 Liberation Serif{\*\falt Times New Roman};}{\f4\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset128 Liberation Sans{\*\falt Arial};}{\f5\fnil\fprq2\fcharset128 WenQuanYi Micro Hei;}{\f6\fnil\fprq2\fcharset128 Lohit Hindi;}{\f7\fnil\fprq0\fcharset128 Lohit Hindi;}}
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue128;\red128\green128\blue128;}
{\stylesheet{\s0\snext0\nowidctlpar{\*\hyphen2\hyphlead2\hyphtrail2\hyphmax0}\cf0\kerning1\hich\af5\langfe2052\dbch\af6\afs24\lang1081\loch\f3\fs24\lang1033 Normal;}
{\s1\sbasedon17\snext18\ilvl0\outlinelevel0\sb240\sa120\keepn\b\hich\af5\dbch\af6\afs48\ab\loch\f3\fs48 Heading 1;}
{\*\cs15\snext15\b\ab Strong Emphasis;}
{\*\cs16\snext16\cf2\ul\ulc0\langfe255\lang255\lang255 Internet Link;}
{\s17\sbasedon0\snext18\sb240\sa120\keepn\hich\af5\dbch\af6\afs28\loch\f4\fs28 Heading;}
{\s18\sbasedon0\snext18\sb0\sa120 Text body;}
{\s19\sbasedon18\snext19\sb0\sa120\dbch\af7 List;}
{\s20\sbasedon0\snext20\sb120\sa120\noline\i\dbch\af7\afs24\ai\fs24 Caption;}
{\s21\sbasedon0\snext21\noline\dbch\af7 Index;}
}{\info{\author zak }{\creatim\yr2011\mo9\dy9\hr22\min46}{\revtim\yr0\mo0\dy0\hr0\min0}{\printim\yr0\mo0\dy0\hr0\min0}{\comment LibreOffice}{\vern3300}}\deftab709

{\*\pgdsctbl
{\pgdsc0\pgdscuse195\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\pgdscnxt0 Default;}}
\formshade\paperh15840\paperw12240\margl1134\margr1134\margt1134\margb1134\sectd\sbknone\sectunlocked1\pgndec\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1134\margrsxn1134\ftnbj\ftnstart1\ftnrstcont\ftnnar\aenddoc\aftnrstcont\aftnstart1\aftnnrlc
\pgndec\pard\plain \s1\ilvl0\outlinelevel0\sb240\sa120\keepn\b\hich\af5\dbch\af6\afs48\ab\loch\f3\fs48\qc\sb240\sa120{\*\cs15\b\ab\cf1\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Hamlet Synopsis}
\par \pard\plain \s18\sb0\sa120\qc{{\field{\*\fldinst HYPERLINK "http://www.folger.edu/template.cfm?cid=3481&showpreview=1" }\*\cs15\b\ab\b0\ab0{\fldrslt \cf2\ul\ulc0\langfe255\lang255\lang255\rtlch \ltrch\loch
http://www.folger.edu/template.cfm?cid=3481&showpreview=1}}}
\par \pard\plain \s18\sb0\sa120\qc{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
}
\par \pard\plain \s18\sb0\sa120\ql{\*\cs15\b\ab\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Hamlet}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
, Prince of Denmark, is home from school to mourn the death of his father, }{\*\cs15\b\ab\rtlch \ltrch\loch
King Hamlet}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
, who died two months earlier. Only a month after his death, Hamlet\uc3 \u8217\'e2\'80\'99s mother, \uc1 }{\*\cs15\b\ab\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Queen Gertrude}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
, married the late king\uc3 \u8217\'e2\'80\'99s brother, \uc1 }{\*\cs15\b\ab\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Claudius}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
, and the two continue to reign in Denmark.}
\par \pard\plain \s18\sb0\sa120\ql{\rtlch \ltrch
\~ }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Shortly after, the }{\*\cs15\b\ab\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Ghost}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
 of the late King Hamlet appears to the }{\*\cs15\b\ab\b0\ab0\rtlch \ltrch\loch
soldiers}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
 and Hamlet\uc3 \u8217\'e2\'80\'99s friend \uc1 }{\*\cs15\b\ab\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Horatio}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
 but disappears without speaking. Horatio describes the Ghost to Hamlet, who insists on seeing it for himself. When he is alone with Hamlet, the Ghost reveals that Claudius killed him. Hamlet promises to avenge his father\uc3 \u8217\'e2\'80\'99s murder.\uc1 }
\par \pard\plain \s18\sb0\sa120\ql{\rtlch \ltrch
\~ }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Meanwhile, }{\*\cs15\b\ab\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Laertes}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
, son of the King\uc3 \u8217\'e2\'80\'99s advisor \uc1 }{\*\cs15\b\ab\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Polonius}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
, is about to return to France. He bids farewell to his sister, }{\*\cs15\b\ab\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Ophelia}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
, warning her not to be swayed by Hamlet\uc3 \u8217\'e2\'80\'99s attempts to woo her. Polonius gives Laertes a long-winded good-bye and orders Ophelia to cease all contact with Hamlet.\uc1 }
\par \pard\plain \s18\sb0\sa120\ql{\rtlch \ltrch
\~ }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Hamlet begins acting strangely towards everyone in the castle. Claudius and Gertrude are greatly alarmed by this, but Polonius insists that the cause of Hamlet\uc3 \u8217\'e2\'80\'99s apparent madness is Ophelia\u8217\'e2\'80\'99s rejection of him. Claudius and Polonius plot to spy on Hamlet in discussion with Ophelia. The conversation between the two is bitter, ending with Hamlet renouncing any love he ever had for Ophelia.\uc1 }
\par \pard\plain \s18\sb0\sa120\ql{\rtlch \ltrch
\~ }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The King and Queen then ask Hamlet\uc3 \u8217\'e2\'80\'99s friends \uc1 }{\*\cs15\b\ab\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Rosencrantz}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
 and }{\*\cs15\b\ab\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Guildenstern}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
 to determine what is wrong with him. Hamlet quickly realizes that the royal couple set up the pair to spy on him. His friends confess to their assignments. In passing, they mention that a troupe of }{\*\cs15\b\ab\b0\ab0\rtlch \ltrch\loch
actors}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
 is at the palace. Hamlet decides to have the troupe stage a play similar to his father\uc3 \u8217\'e2\'80\'99s murder. He will observe Claudius\u8217\'e2\'80\'99 reaction in order to determine his guilt.\uc1 }
\par \pard\plain \s18\sb0\sa120\ql{\rtlch \ltrch
\~ }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
The }{\*\cs15\b\ab\b0\ab0\rtlch \ltrch\loch
court}{\b\ab\rtlch \ltrch\loch
 }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
watches the play, which depicts }{\b0\ab0\rtlch \ltrch\loch
a }{\*\cs15\b\ab\b0\ab0\rtlch \ltrch\loch
murderer}{\b0\ab0\rtlch \ltrch\loch
 poisoning the }{\*\cs15\b\ab\b0\ab0\rtlch \ltrch\loch
king}{\b0\ab0\rtlch \ltrch\loch
 and marrying the }{\*\cs15\b\ab\b0\ab0\rtlch \ltrch\loch
queen}{\b0\ab0\rtlch \ltrch\loch
.}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
 Enraged, Claudius orders the play to cease and everyone to leave. Once alone, Claudius kneels to pray, consumed by guilt for his crime. Hamlet almost kills him but decides against it, afraid that if Claudius dies mid-prayer he will go to heaven.}
\par \pard\plain \s18\sb0\sa120\ql{\rtlch \ltrch
\~ }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Hamlet meets Gertrude in her room and an argument ensues. Hidden behind a curtain and afraid for Gertrude\uc3 \u8217\'e2\'80\'99s well-being, Polonius shouts for help. Hamlet, thinking the hidden figure is Claudius, stabs Polonius. The Ghost reappears to Hamlet to refocus him on the task of killing Claudius.\uc1 }
\par \pard\plain \s18\sb0\sa120\ql{\rtlch \ltrch
\~ }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
On the King\uc3 \u8217\'e2\'80\'99s command, Hamlet, Rosencrantz, and Guildenstern leave for England. While at sea, Hamlet learns that Claudius has sent a letter to the King of England with orders to kill Hamlet. Hamlet replaces these orders with letters requesting the executions of Rosencrantz and Guildenstern. Hamlet then returns to Denmark.\uc1 }
\par \pard\plain \s18\sb0\sa120\ql{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Back at the palace, Ophelia goes mad with grief. Laertes returns and learns that Hamlet killed his father, Polonius. Claudius, determined to kill Hamlet, convinces Laertes to avenge Polonius\uc3 \u8217\'e2\'80\'99 death by dueling Hamlet with a poisoned blade. Claudius will also poison Hamlet\u8217\'e2\'80\'99s wine. Gertrude arrives and announces that Ophelia has drowned.\uc1 }
\par \pard\plain \s18\sb0\sa120\sb0\sa120{\rtlch \ltrch
\~ }{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Hamlet agrees to duel Laertes, thinking it is only for sport. Gertrude mistakenly drinks the poisoned wine and dies. Hamlet is struck by Laertes\uc3 \u8217\'e2\'80\'99 poisoned sword, but manages to cut Laertes with the same blade. Laertes reveals Claudius\u8217\'e2\'80\'99 plot. Hamlet kills Claudius and, knowing he is dying, asks Horatio to tell his tale. Hamlet and Laertes reconcile. \uc1 }{\*\cs15\b\ab\rtlch \ltrch\loch
Prince Fortinbras}{\rtlch \ltrch\loch
 of Norway enters and conquers Denmark, but honors the dead Hamlet.}
\par }